README.md, before:

![intro image](https://github.com/JM-Mendez/jm-mendez/blob/primary/hero.png?raw=true)

<span>
  <a href="https://reactjs.org/">
    <img src="https://img.shields.io/static/v1?label=proficient&message=react&color=blue" />
  </a>
  <a href="https://www.typescriptlang.org">
    <img src="https://img.shields.io/static/v1?label=proficient&message=typescript&color=3177c6" />
  <a>
  <a href="https://redux.js.org">
    <img src="https://img.shields.io/static/v1?label=proficient&message=redux&color=7549bb" />
  <a>
  <a href="https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/Guide/HTML/HTML5">
    <img src="https://img.shields.io/static/v1?label=proficient&message=html5&color=orange" />
  <a>
  <a href="https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/CSS">
    <img src="https://img.shields.io/static/v1?label=proficient&message=css&color=264ce3" />
  <a>
  <a href="https://sass-lang.com">
    <img src="https://img.shields.io/static/v1?label=proficient&message=sass&color=cc669b" />
  <a>
  <a href="https://nodejs.org">
    <img src="https://img.shields.io/static/v1?label=proficient&message=nodejs&color=3e873f" />
  <a>
  <a href="https://xstate.js.org">
    <img src="https://img.shields.io/static/v1?label=proficient&message=xstate&color=2a2b3f" />
  <a>
  <a href="https://jestjs.io">
    <img src="https://img.shields.io/static/v1?label=proficient&message=jest&color=9a415b" />
  <a>
  <a href="https://webpack.js.org">
    <img src="https://img.shields.io/static/v1?label=proficient&message=webpack&color=6e96d7" />
  <a>
  <a href="https://git-scm.com">
    <img src="https://img.shields.io/static/v1?label=proficient&message=git&color=f15033" />
  <a>
  <a href="https://www.electronjs.org">
    <img src="https://img.shields.io/static/v1?label=familiar&labelColor=lightgrey&message=electron&color=51727c" />
  <a>
  <a href="http://gatsbyjs.org">
    <img src="https://img.shields.io/static/v1?label=familiar&labelColor=lightgrey&message=gatsby&color=633295" />
  <a>
  <a href="https://graphql.org">
    <img src="https://img.shields.io/static/v1?label=familiar&labelColor=lightgrey&message=graphql&color=e535ab" />
  <a>
  <a href="https://storybook.js.org/">
    <img src="https://img.shields.io/static/v1?label=familiar&labelColor=lightgrey&message=storybook&color=f54785" />
  <a>
  <a href="https://www.netlify.com/">
    <img src="https://img.shields.io/static/v1?label=familiar&labelColor=lightgrey&message=netlify&color=39adbb" />
  <a>
  <a href="https://www.markdownguide.org/">
    <img src="https://img.shields.io/static/v1?label=familiar&labelColor=lightgrey&message=markdown&color=34a5df" />
  <a>
</span>

<a href="https://www.codewars.com/users/JM-Mendez/stats">
  <img src="https://www.codewars.com/users/JM-Mendez/badges/large" height="32px" />
</a>

<br />
<br />

<a href="https://www.linkedin.com/in/johnmanuelmendez/">
  <img src="https://github.com/JM-Mendez/jm-mendez/blob/primary/linkedin.png?raw=true" alt="John Mendez | linkedin" width="24px">
  <span>johnmanuelmendez &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;</span>
</a>
<a href="https://twitter.com/joan_manuel_bk">
  <img src="https://github.com/JM-Mendez/jm-mendez/blob/primary/twitter.png?raw=true" alt="John Mendez | Twitter" width="20px">
  <span>&nbsp;joan_manuel_bk &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;</span>
</a>
<a href="mailto:john.manuel.mendez@gmail.com">
  <img src="https://github.com/JM-Mendez/jm-mendez/blob/primary/gmail.png?raw=true" alt="Send email" width="20px">
  <span>&nbsp; john.manuel.mendez@gmail.com</span>
</a>

<br />
<br />

I'm Jóan, pronounced as John, a filmmaker/actor/screenwriter transitioning into software engineering. I'm entirely self-taught, and that's been my jam since I first taught myself how to speak english as a 7 year old. My passion is solving problems using code, and perform best with full autonomy—while owning my mistakes as much as my successes.

Here's a bit of what I've been up to:

### 📈 Outreachy Internship working with Intermine/Univ of Cambridge

I was a cowboy coder until I was selected to overhaul intermine's entire webapp. I was tasked with designing and developing it, after iterating on specifications with my mentors. It was an incredible experience, and I'm forever grateful to [outreachy](https://www.outreachy.org/) and [intermine](http://intermine.org/) for giving me the opportunity to work alongside a team on a real project.

Built with react, xstate, emotion, and sass | [live demo](https://intermine-data-browser.netlify.app/) | [source](https://github.com/JM-Mendez/InterMine-Data-Browser-Tool)

<a href="https://intermine-data-browser.netlify.app/">
  <img alt="intermine data browser project" src="https://github.com/JM-Mendez/jm-mendez/blob/primary/data-browser.gif?raw=true" />
</a>

### 📝 Davenpad

A personal project. This is a collaborative writing environment for visual writers. As a visual writer, to me images are extremely important to help me set tone and mood. Having quick access to research material as well. My goal is for this app to help me write, reference, and find inspiration at the speed of thought.

Built with draftjs (a modified fork I'm maintaining), react, redux, and typescript.

![davenpad website photo](https://github.com/JM-Mendez/jm-mendez/blob/primary/davenpad.png?raw=true)

### ✨ Freecodecamp projects

A selection of projects that I built while learning how to code. All built with react, typescript, and sometimes redux.

#### Javascript Calculator

<div>
  <a href="https://fcc-jm-projects.gitlab.io/javascript-calculator/">live demo</a>
  <span> | </span>
  <a href="https://gitlab.com/fcc-jm-projects/javascript-calculator">source</a>
</div>
<a href="https://fcc-jm-projects.gitlab.io/javascript-calculator/">
  <img alt="javascript calculator project" src="https://github.com/JM-Mendez/jm-mendez/blob/primary/freecodecamp/calculator.png?raw=true">
</a>


#### Pomodoro clock

<div>
  <a href="https://fcc-jm-projects.gitlab.io/pomodoro-clock/">live demo</a>
  <span> | </span>
  <a href="https://gitlab.com/fcc-jm-projects/pomodoro-clock">source</a>
</div>
<a href="https://fcc-jm-projects.gitlab.io/pomodoro-clock/">
  <img alt="pomodoro clock project" src="https://github.com/JM-Mendez/jm-mendez/blob/primary/freecodecamp/pomodoro.png?raw=true">
</a>


#### More freecodecamp projects

- Drum Machine | [live demo](https://fcc-jm-projects.gitlab.io/drum-machine/) | [source](https://gitlab.com/fcc-jm-projects/drum-machine)

- Markdown Previewer | [live demo](https://fcc-jm-projects.gitlab.io/markdown-previewer/) | [source](https://gitlab.com/fcc-jm-projects/markdown-previewer)

- Random quote machine | [live demo](https://fcc-jm-projects.gitlab.io/random-quote-machine/) | [source](https://gitlab.com/fcc-jm-projects/random-quote-machine)

### 💡Goals for 2020

- finish the interview cake course material
- get a job 😁
- get an alpha version of davenpad out🤞

Commit message:

Add challenges I overcame on the data browser

README.md, after:

![intro image](https://github.com/JM-Mendez/jm-mendez/blob/primary/hero.png?raw=true)

<span>
  <a href="https://reactjs.org/">
    <img src="https://img.shields.io/static/v1?label=proficient&message=react&color=blue" />
  </a>
  <a href="https://www.typescriptlang.org">
    <img src="https://img.shields.io/static/v1?label=proficient&message=typescript&color=3177c6" />
  <a>
  <a href="https://redux.js.org">
    <img src="https://img.shields.io/static/v1?label=proficient&message=redux&color=7549bb" />
  <a>
  <a href="https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/Guide/HTML/HTML5">
    <img src="https://img.shields.io/static/v1?label=proficient&message=html5&color=orange" />
  <a>
  <a href="https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/CSS">
    <img src="https://img.shields.io/static/v1?label=proficient&message=css&color=264ce3" />
  <a>
  <a href="https://sass-lang.com">
    <img src="https://img.shields.io/static/v1?label=proficient&message=sass&color=cc669b" />
  <a>
  <a href="https://nodejs.org">
    <img src="https://img.shields.io/static/v1?label=proficient&message=nodejs&color=3e873f" />
  <a>
  <a href="https://xstate.js.org">
    <img src="https://img.shields.io/static/v1?label=proficient&message=xstate&color=2a2b3f" />
  <a>
  <a href="https://jestjs.io">
    <img src="https://img.shields.io/static/v1?label=proficient&message=jest&color=9a415b" />
  <a>
  <a href="https://webpack.js.org">
    <img src="https://img.shields.io/static/v1?label=proficient&message=webpack&color=6e96d7" />
  <a>
  <a href="https://git-scm.com">
    <img src="https://img.shields.io/static/v1?label=proficient&message=git&color=f15033" />
  <a>
  <a href="https://www.electronjs.org">
    <img src="https://img.shields.io/static/v1?label=familiar&labelColor=lightgrey&message=electron&color=51727c" />
  <a>
  <a href="http://gatsbyjs.org">
    <img src="https://img.shields.io/static/v1?label=familiar&labelColor=lightgrey&message=gatsby&color=633295" />
  <a>
  <a href="https://graphql.org">
    <img src="https://img.shields.io/static/v1?label=familiar&labelColor=lightgrey&message=graphql&color=e535ab" />
  <a>
  <a href="https://storybook.js.org/">
    <img src="https://img.shields.io/static/v1?label=familiar&labelColor=lightgrey&message=storybook&color=f54785" />
  <a>
  <a href="https://www.netlify.com/">
    <img src="https://img.shields.io/static/v1?label=familiar&labelColor=lightgrey&message=netlify&color=39adbb" />
  <a>
  <a href="https://www.markdownguide.org/">
    <img src="https://img.shields.io/static/v1?label=familiar&labelColor=lightgrey&message=markdown&color=34a5df" />
  <a>
</span>

<a href="https://www.codewars.com/users/JM-Mendez/stats">
  <img src="https://www.codewars.com/users/JM-Mendez/badges/large" height="32px" />
</a>

<br />
<br />

<a href="https://www.linkedin.com/in/johnmanuelmendez/">
  <img src="https://github.com/JM-Mendez/jm-mendez/blob/primary/linkedin.png?raw=true" alt="John Mendez | linkedin" width="24px">
  <span>johnmanuelmendez &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;</span>
</a>
<a href="https://twitter.com/joan_manuel_bk">
  <img src="https://github.com/JM-Mendez/jm-mendez/blob/primary/twitter.png?raw=true" alt="John Mendez | Twitter" width="20px">
  <span>&nbsp;joan_manuel_bk &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;</span>
</a>
<a href="mailto:john.manuel.mendez@gmail.com">
  <img src="https://github.com/JM-Mendez/jm-mendez/blob/primary/gmail.png?raw=true" alt="Send email" width="20px">
  <span>&nbsp; john.manuel.mendez@gmail.com</span>
</a>

<br />
<br />

I'm Jóan, pronounced as John, a filmmaker/actor/screenwriter transitioning into software engineering. I'm entirely self-taught, and that's been my jam since I first taught myself how to speak english as a 7 year old. My passion is solving problems using code, and perform best with full autonomy—while owning my mistakes as much as my successes.

Here's a bit of what I've been up to:

### 📈 Outreachy Internship working with Intermine/Univ of Cambridge

I was a cowboy coder until I was selected to overhaul intermine's entire webapp. I was tasked with designing and developing it, after iterating on specifications with my mentors. It was an incredible experience, and I'm forever grateful to [outreachy](https://www.outreachy.org/) and [intermine](http://intermine.org/) for giving me the opportunity to work alongside a team on a real project.

The biggest challenges I overcame were:
- fetching large payloads (10s of mbs) for hundreds of components, without causing out of memory errors
- wrangling the data without locking up the UI on the main thread
- creating search indexes for autocompletes, since some components had 10s of thousands of possible values

Built with react, xstate, emotion, and sass | [live demo](https://intermine-data-browser.netlify.app/) | [source](https://github.com/JM-Mendez/InterMine-Data-Browser-Tool)

<a href="https://intermine-data-browser.netlify.app/">
  <img alt="intermine data browser project" src="https://github.com/JM-Mendez/jm-mendez/blob/primary/data-browser.gif?raw=true" />
</a>

### 📝 Davenpad

A personal project. This is a collaborative writing environment for visual writers. As a visual writer, to me images are extremely important to help me set tone and mood. Having quick access to research material as well. My goal is for this app to help me write, reference, and find inspiration at the speed of thought.

Built with draftjs (a modified fork I'm maintaining), react, redux, and typescript.

![davenpad website photo](https://github.com/JM-Mendez/jm-mendez/blob/primary/davenpad.png?raw=true)

### ✨ Freecodecamp projects

A selection of projects that I built while learning how to code. All built with react, typescript, and sometimes redux.

#### Javascript Calculator

<div>
  <a href="https://fcc-jm-projects.gitlab.io/javascript-calculator/">live demo</a>
  <span> | </span>
  <a href="https://gitlab.com/fcc-jm-projects/javascript-calculator">source</a>
</div>
<a href="https://fcc-jm-projects.gitlab.io/javascript-calculator/">
  <img alt="javascript calculator project" src="https://github.com/JM-Mendez/jm-mendez/blob/primary/freecodecamp/calculator.png?raw=true">
</a>


#### Pomodoro clock

<div>
  <a href="https://fcc-jm-projects.gitlab.io/pomodoro-clock/">live demo</a>
  <span> | </span>
  <a href="https://gitlab.com/fcc-jm-projects/pomodoro-clock">source</a>
</div>
<a href="https://fcc-jm-projects.gitlab.io/pomodoro-clock/">
  <img alt="pomodoro clock project" src="https://github.com/JM-Mendez/jm-mendez/blob/primary/freecodecamp/pomodoro.png?raw=true">
</a>


#### More freecodecamp projects

- Drum Machine | [live demo](https://fcc-jm-projects.gitlab.io/drum-machine/) | [source](https://gitlab.com/fcc-jm-projects/drum-machine)

- Markdown Previewer | [live demo](https://fcc-jm-projects.gitlab.io/markdown-previewer/) | [source](https://gitlab.com/fcc-jm-projects/markdown-previewer)

- Random quote machine | [live demo](https://fcc-jm-projects.gitlab.io/random-quote-machine/) | [source](https://gitlab.com/fcc-jm-projects/random-quote-machine)

### 💡Goals for 2020

- finish the interview cake course material
- get a job 😁
- get an alpha version of davenpad out🤞
